---
layout: project
title: Code for America
category: roles
details:
  - Sr. Product Designer
  - Product Designer
dates: 2015 – 2019
description: At Code for America, I redesigned digital public services focused on vulnerable populations. During my time there, my role encompassed everything from user research to service design to UI/UX design to web development.
logo: /roles/cfa/logo_cfa.png
hero: /roles/cfa/codeforamerica_outsidecrowd.jpg
hero_credit: "Code for America"
---

<div class="row">
	<div class="col-md-6" markdown="1">

From 2015-2019, I worked as a designer at Code for America to improve digital public services for vulnerable populations. I worked on issues such as food assistance, healthcare, homelessness, accessibility, federal/state tax preparation, and access to city services.

**Selected Achievements**

- We reimagined and improved access for how millions of Californians apply for SNAP (food stamps) every year.
- We piloted a successful service to provide working Americans with free tax help and claim their Earned Income Tax Credit.
- I spearheaded and maintained Code for America’s accessibility-forward design system.

		
</div>
  <div class="col-md-4 col-md-offset-2">
    <figure class="figure--no-round">
      {% picture /roles/cfa/logo_cfa.png %}
    </figure>
  </div>
</div>

---

<div class="row">
<div class="col-md-5" markdown="1">

## Design Leadership
		
</div>
<div class="col-md-6 col-md-offset-1" markdown="1">

As one of the first staff designers hired by the organization and lead designer on all of projects I worked on, I collaborated with other leaders in the organization to shape project strategy and OKRs. I helped mentor younger designers on my team and spearheaded organizational efforts around design systems, inclusive design, user research, UI copywriting, front-end best practices, and R&D. I gave talks and created installations during SF Design Week and the Code for America Summit Conference.

</div>
</div>

---

<div class="row">
<div class="col-md-5" markdown="1">

## Research
    
</div>
<div class="col-md-6 col-md-offset-1" markdown="1">

I partnered with other designers and research to conduct user research studies to improve access for students, people experiencing homelessness, people with disabilities, non-english speaking communities, and community-based organizations. Many of these efforts involved collaboration with government and community partners to launch broader initiatives.

</div>
</div>

---

<div class="row">
<div class="col-md-5" markdown="1">

## Service Design
    
</div>
<div class="col-md-6 col-md-offset-1" markdown="1">

Using qualitative and quantitative research, I put together journey maps, service blueprints, and pain point diagrams for the services we worked on. In addition to our web services, I helped to create and design other touch points such as government lobby material, back-end interfaces, postcard mailers, paper forms, and text message / email notifications.

</div>
</div>

---

<div class="row">
<div class="col-md-5" markdown="1">

## Digital Product Design
    
</div>
<div class="col-md-6 col-md-offset-1" markdown="1">

As a designer, I led UX/UI design, copywriting, frontend development for projects I worked on. I also led efforts to create Code for America's accessibility-forward design system.

</div>
</div>

---

<div class="row">
<div class="col-md-5" markdown="1">

## Quantitative Experimentation
    
</div>
<div class="col-md-6 col-md-offset-1" markdown="1">

I collaborated with data scientists and engineers to design and run quantitative experiments that markedly improved the approval rate of our SNAP applications by removing key barriers in the user journey.

</div>
</div>
